Abstract--- Elliptic curve scalar multiplication (ECSM) is a fundamental element of pre-quantum public key cryptogaphy, which is the predominant choice in this field. ECSM implementations on embedded systems like smart card have been vulnerable to both permanent and transient errors, as well as fault attacks. Fault attacks exploit errors that arise when a cryptographic device is engaged in a private-key operation. The incorrect output may yield sensitive information to an adversary. Consequently, fault and error detection is a crucial procedure from a security perspective. In this work, we presented a novel algorithm level error detection scheme on Montgomery ladder which was suggested as a scalar multiplication technique for a particular type of elliptic curves featuring highly efficient point arithmetic, known as Montgomery curves. We achieved close to 100% error detection rate on loop abort and scalar bit flipping fault model utilizing binary tree data structure. By assuming that n is the size of the private key, the overhead of our error detection scheme is O(n). Finally, we conduct a benchmark of our suggested error detection scheme on both ARMv8 and FPGA platforms to illustrate the implementation and resource utilization. Deployed on Cortex-A72 processors, our error detection technique maintains a clock cycle overhead of less than 3%. Additionally, integrating our error detection technique into FPGAs, including Zynq Ultrascale+ and Kintex Ultrascale+, results in comparable throughput with less than 1% increase in area compared to the original hardware implementation.
